This is a KDE screensaver, which displays images from a folder as a slideshow.
It uses the famous Ken Burns effect together with nice transition effects. My
goal is to keep it as simple as possible with a sensible default configuration.
However, if you want to tweak it a bit, there are a few 'secret' configuration
options:

You can add

  DisableCrossFade=true
or
  DisableFadeInOut=true

to the configuration file $KDEHOME/share/config/smoothslidesaver.kssrc to
disable some effects (it doesn't make much sense to disable both, btw.).
Default is all effects enabled.

SmoothSlideSaver will automatically detect, which refresh rate your monitor is
using and it will adjust its own frame rate accordingly. The following table
shows, which refresh rate will be chosen:

  Frame rate:   Monitor refresh rate:
  25 Hz         (50), 75, 100 Hz   (PAL compliant setups)
  28 Hz         85, 110 Hz         (seems to work ok)
  30 Hz         60, 90, 120 Hz     (NTSC compliant setups)

SmoothSlideSaver will choose the frame rate, which matches your monitor
configuration best. This should work for 99% of all configurations, even if
your setup uses a refresh rate which is close to the ones listed above.
However, if your monitor is operating at an really strange refresh rate (e.g.
something like 79 Hz), it might be beneficial to tweak SmoothSlideSaver's
frame rate manually. You can do this by adding

  ForceFrameRate=HZ

to the configuration file. HZ is a number, e.g. 35. Please keep in mind, that
increasing the frame rate will also increase the load on your CPU and graphics
card, especially if your computers OpenGL implementation isn't that fast. Other
applications running while the screensaver is active won't be able make much
use of the CPU power dedicated to the screensaver. The generated load heavily
depends on the kind of CPU, graphics card and OpenGL driver you are using. I
also strongly recommend using a kernel from the 2.6 series, otherwise the
animations might be a bit jerky.

To further increase visual quality of the effects, your graphics card should be
using the 'Sync on VBlank' feature to avoid tearing artifacts (ugly artifacts,
which make the image on the screen look like being cut into two pieces during
the fade effects). If you are using an NVidia graphics card with the
propriatary NVidia driver, you don't need to worry about that, because
'Sync on VBlank' is enabled automatically for SmoothSlideSaver. The proprietary
ATI driver will require a line like the following to be present in your
/etc/X11/xorg.conf or /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 (the '8' in the third digit is the
important thing, the other digits may vary):

  Section "Display"
     ...
     Option "Capabilities" "0x00000800"
     ...
  EndSection

I don't know how to enable it for other cards or DRI configurations (or if it
is possible at all). It also seems, that some configurations have it enabled by
default.

